source,title,text
https://skinsecret.co.in,Best Skin Clinic in Kochi,"Rejuvenate your skin Reinstate youthfulness
Advanced Skin, Hair, Laser and Anti-aging Treatments in Kochi. Personalized Dermatology for Radiant Results
Skinsecrets treatments
Why Skinsecrets
We believe that every skin type is unique, And so we offer personalized Skin, Hair and Laser treatments tailored to your individual needs.
World-Class Technology
Where Advanced Skin Science Comes Alive,
we invest only in Technologies that are globally trusted,
FDA-cleared, and clinically validated.
Hair Treatments
Medical Dermatology
Cosmetic Dermatology
Laser Dermatology
Chief Dermatologist
Meet our
Medical Head
Dr. Anjana Mohan is a certified Dermatologist and internationally trained aesthetic expert, with over 15+ years of clinical excellence in medical and advanced aesthetic dermatology. Widely regarded as one of South India's most trusted authorities in injectables, lasers and skin health, she brings global standards and uncompromising ethics to every treatment protocol.
As Medical Director, she leads a carefully curated team of dermatologists, nurses, and therapists, ensuring every patient receives science-backed, personalised, and ethically driven care. Her philosophy is simple yet enduring:
True beauty isn't created-it's revealed.
Unisex Clinic
We treat everyone
We treat and serve to any group, any gender, or any community member the same.
Testimonials
Stories of our clients
Very effective treatments, great ambience. pleasant and helpful staff and an easily accessible location. The doctor was absolutely kind, courteous, and very helpful
Deepthi Vinodkumar
HR Manager
Dr. Anjana is the best doctor that exists in Kochi today. You can very well go to her and trust that she will give you the best solution to all your problems.
Lakshmi Menon
Airhostess
I am really thankful to you, Dr. Anjana. Thank you for clearing away all the white patches on my face and hands, which were due to some allergy to sunlight, within a few days.
Layana Josephcl
Doctor
I am really thankful to Dr.Anjana Mam. I received excellent treatment. The best part is that they're extremely friendly and make you feel comfortable.
Malavika Mohan
Actress
World-class treatment at a reasonable price. I am totally satisfied with the staff and service. Hats off to Dr. Anjana Mam!
Reshma Surendhran
Advocate
It's not often that you find a doctor who cares for your skin as much as you do. I met Dr. Anjana in December 2016. when regular outbursts of my acne had given me..
Zeba Nahas
Model
Live your life to the fullest with beautiful skin
Overview
Testimonial
Services
Medical Dermatology
Laser Dermatology
Cosmetic Dermatology
Hair Treatments
Legal
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Opening Hours
Monday to Sunday
9.00am - 6:30pm
Call Us
+91-984 670 3555
+91-984 670 6555
+91-04843113030
Email Us info@skinsecret.co.in
Office
Metro pillar 456,
Opp SBI Bank,
Changampuzha Park, Edapally,
Kochi - 682024
Copyright 2026 Skinsecret. AlI Rights Reserved
Designed by
Webandcrafts"
https://skinsecret.co.in/about-us,About Us,"At Skinsecrets, we believe that every individual is unique and deserves the best personalised solutions.
Why
Welcome to Skinsecrets - one of the best skin and aesthetic clinics in Kerala, led by expert Dermatologist Dr. Anjana Mohan. We specialize in Painless, Non-surgical skin treatments designed to rejuvenate and restore your skin with minimal discomfort and downtime.
At Skinsecrets, we understand that every skin is unique, and so are your needs. That's why we offer customized skincare and aesthetic treatment plans, blending the latest in modern dermatology with a compassionate, client-first approach.
Whether you're looking to treat Acne, Pigmentation, Aging signs, or simply maintain your Skin's natural glow, we deliver safe and effective results using FDA-cleared & US FDA- approved equipment.
Our mission is to help you feel confident in your own skin, by combining advanced skin science with personalized care - all in a serene, welcoming environment. Discover why we're recognized as the best aesthetic clinic in Kerala.
The purpose of
Our Mission
We believe that everyone is unique and deserves the best personalized solutions.
Our Vision
Authentic, high-quality, and cost-effective skincare
Core Values
Client-oriented, client safety, client confidentiality, and performance-driven
Why
Choose us?
The Best Trusted, Ethical and Advanced Skin Clinic in Kerala.
Led by MD Dermatologists & not aestheticians. Our clinic ensures that every treatment protocol is supervised and never random. We use only FDA-cleared and US-FDA-approved equipment. Staying rooted in clinical dermatology rather than commercial trends. Our handpicked team of qualified Nurses, Laser therapists and Technicians follows a clean, protocol-based approach to both medical & cosmetic dermatology. Trusted by over 50000+ patients across Kerala and beyond, we are committed to delivering safe, ethical and advanced skin care
team
Our non-invasive and non-surgical treatments are time-tested and proven remedies that are customized for each distinctive skin type and specific healing needs. All our medical experts employed at the clinic have been personally trained by Dr. Anjana Mohan herself.
Dr. Ashitha Mary Kurian
MBBS, MD (DVL)
Dr. Jai Kumar Pillai
MBBS MD (DVL) Dermatology, Aesthetics & Body Sculpting
Dr.Daya Babu
MBBS, MD(DVL)
Dr.Anjana Mohan
MBBS, MD(DVL), Fellow in Derm Laser Surgery, Medical head - Dermatology & Antiaging
Dr. Ashitha Mary Kurian
MBBS, MD (DVL)
Dr. Jai Kumar Pillai
MBBS MD (DVL) Dermatology, Aesthetics & Body Sculpting
Dr.Daya Babu
MBBS, MD(DVL)
Dr.Anjana Mohan
MBBS, MD(DVL), Fellow in Derm Laser Surgery, Medical head - Dermatology & Antiaging
Dr. Ashitha Mary Kurian
MBBS, MD (DVL)
Dr. Jai Kumar Pillai
MBBS MD (DVL) Dermatology, Aesthetics & Body Sculpting
Our innovative technologies
Discover FDA-approved, non-invasive and non-surgical skin treatments in Kerala, clinically proven and personalized for every unique skin type. We use the latest advancements in aesthetic dermatology to deliver safe, effective, and lasting results
Revlite
Hydrafacial MD
Resurfx
CryoPen
Picosure
Cutera
Mira Peel
EndyMed
SculpSure
Lumenis Light Sheer Diode
Linea
Quantificare Lifeviz Infinity Pro
Reveal Vega Comfort"
https://skinsecret.co.in/hair-treatments,Hair Treatments,"Hair Treatments at Skin Secrets Kochi
Hair Treatment
At Skinsecrets, we believe that every individual is unique and deserves personalized solutions.
Hair Treatment
Hair Dye Allergy
Hair Dye Allergy is a non- infectious and non-transmissible autoimmune skin condition that can be both baffling and persistent.
Hair Growth Factors
Growth factors are involved in the regulation of hair morphogenesis and hair growth cycle."
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology,Medical Dermatology,"Medical Dermatology Services at Skin Secrets Kochi
Acne(Pimples)
Acne typically affects the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands.
Corns
Corns is a non-infectious and non-transmissible autoimmune skin condition that can be both baffling and persistent.
Skin Tags
Skin tags typically affect the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands.
Skin Allergies
Skin infections typically affect the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands.
Vitiligo
Vitiligo treatment typically affects the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands.
Psoriasis
Psoriasis typically affects the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands.
Pigmentation
Pigmentation is a non-infectious and non-transmissible autoimmune skin condition that can be both baffling persistent.
Keloid
Keloid is a non-infectious and non-transmissible autoimmune skin condition that can be both baffling and persistent.
Skin Infections
Skin infections typically affect the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology,Cosmetic Dermatology,"Cosmetic Dermatology at Skin Secrets Kochi
Cryotherapy
Cryotherapy is a very safe and simple procedure commonly performed in our OPD for the effective removal of benign and malignant skin lesions.
Vampire Face Lift
This is a medical procedure performed for patients who need healthy, youthful, and rejuvenated skin.
Double Chin Reduction
A new surgery-free solution to the dreaded double chin promises to do what no workout can.
Thread Lift
Thread Lift is a medical procedure that is designed to improve the saggy, dull, and tired look of the face in an innovative manner, giving a natural, relaxed look while enhancing the contours of the face.
Eye Bag Reduction
Eye bags or under-eye puffiness are common as we grow older, along with dark circles under
the eyes.
Botox & Fillers
Botox and Fillers are the most common and widely used minimally invasive cosmetic treatments
in the cosmetic industry.
Skin Polishing
This physical exfoliating treatment is popularly called skin polishing.
Peels
Peels, also known as chemical peels, help remove the dead cells and debris from the top layer of your skin.
Medifacials
Skinsecrets offer a wide array of medifacials designed to extend the treatment benefits."
https://skinsecret.co.in/laser-dermatology,Laser Dermatology,"Laser Dermatology at Skin Secrets Kochi
Laser Hair Reduction
The presence of unwanted hair on body parts like the hands, feet, face, and back can affect a person both psychologically and aesthetically.
Unwanted Hair Removal
Tattoo Removal
Laser Tattoo Removal technique removes or fades the tattoo ink using light energy.
Scars
Full Body Laser Treatments
Full-body hair removal is specifically gaining popularity with both men and women.
Skin Tightening
Skin tightening is one of the cosmetic solutions that is performed to treat sagging skin.
Stretch Marks
These are the scars that appear as linear, thin lines."
https://skinsecret.co.in/contact-us,Contact Us,"Contact Us | Skin Secrets Kochi
We would love to help you
Questions about your skin? Want to know more about our services? Text us anytime.
Mobile number
+919846703555
+919846706555
Mail address
Address
Metro pillar 456, Opp SBI Bank, Changampuzha Park, Edapally, Kochi - 682024
Get Direction
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Select Country
Comments
Submit"
https://skinsecret.co.in/testimonial,Testimonial,"Testimonials at Skin Secrets Kochi
Actually, I was struggling really hard to get rid of acne for a long time, and I tried a lot of medicines. Finally, I learned about Skinsecrets. I hav...
Sree Lakshmi
One place that I would highly recommend. I got pimples on my face due to a folic acid deficiency. I consulted Dr. Anjana a few months ago, and she was...
Sandra Hari
I am really thankful to Dr.Anjana Mam. I received excellent treatment. The best part is that they're extremely friendly and make you feel comfortable....
Very effective treatments, great ambience. pleasant and helpful staff and an easily accessible location. The doctor was absolutely kind, courteous, an...
I am really thankful to you, Dr. Anjana. Thank you for clearing away all the white patches on my face and hands, which were due to some allergy to sun...
Load more"
https://skinsecret.co.in/terms-and-condition,Terms And Condition,"Terms and Conditions | Skin Secrets Kochi
Terms and condition
Last modified : December 13, 2022
These Terms of Use apply when you use the products and services of OpenAI, L.L.C. or our affiliates, including our application programming interface, software, tools, developer services, data, documentation, and website (""Services""). The Terms include our Service Terms, Sharing & Publication Policy, Usage Policies, and other documentation, guidelines, or policies we may provide in writing. By using our Services, you agree to these Terms. Our Privacy Policy explains how we collect and use personal information.
1. Registration and Access
You must be 18 years or older and able to form a binding contract with OpenAI to use the Services. If you use the Services on behalf of another person or entity, you must have the authority to accept the Terms on their behalf. You must provide accurate and complete information to register for an account. You may not make your access credentials or account available to others outside your organization, and you are responsible for all activities that occur using your credentials.
2. Usage Requirements
(a.) Use of Services. You may access, and we grant you a non-exclusive right to use, the Services in accordance with these Terms. You will comply with these Terms and all applicable laws when using the Services. We and our affiliates own all rights, title, and interest in and to the Services.
(b.) Feedback. We appreciate feedback, comments, ideas, proposals and suggestions for improvements. If you provide any of these things, we may use it without restriction or compensation to you.
(c.) Restrictions. You may not (i) use the Services in a way that infringes, misappropriates or violates any person's rights; (ii) reverse assemble, reverse compile, decompile, translate or otherwise attempt to discover the source code or underlying components of models, algorithms, and systems of the Services (except to the extent such restrictions are contrary to applicable law); (iii) use the Services to develop foundation models or other large scale models that compete with OpenAI; (iv) use any method to extract data from the Services, including web scraping, web harvesting, or web data extraction methods, other than as permitted through the API; (v) represent that output from the Services was human-generated when it is not; or (vii) buy, sell, or transfer API keys without our prior consent. You will comply with any rate limits and other requirements in our documentation. You may use Services only in geographies currently supported by OpenAI.
(d.) Third Party Services. Any third party software, services, or other products you use in connection with the Services are subject to their own terms, and we are not responsible for third party products.
3. Content
(a.) Your Content. You may provide input to the Services (""Input""), and receive output generated and returned by the Services based on the Input (""Output""). Input and Output are collectively ""Content."" As between the parties and to the extent permitted by applicable law, you own all Input, and subject to your compliance with these Terms, OpenAI hereby assigns to you all its right, title and interest in and to Output. OpenAI may use Content as necessary to provide and maintain the Services, comply with applicable law, and enforce our policies. You are responsible for Content, including for ensuring that it does not violate any applicable law or these Terms.
(b.) Similarity of Content. Due to the nature of machine learning, Output may not be unique across users and the Services may generate the same or similar output for OpenAI or a third party. For example, you may provide input to a model such as ""What color is the sky?"" and receive output such as ""The sky is blue."" Other users may also ask similar questions and receive the same response. Responses that are requested by and generated for other users are not considered your Content.
(c.) Use of Content to Improve Services. One of the main benefits of machine learning models is that they can be improved over time. To help OpenAI provide and maintain the Services, you agree and instruct that we may use Content to develop and improve the Services. You can read more here about how Content may be used to improve model performance. We understand that in some cases you may not want your Content used to improve Services. You can opt out of having Content used for improvement by contacting
support@openai.com with your organization ID. Please note that in some cases this may limit the ability of our Services to better address your specific use case.
(d.) Copyright Complaints. If you believe that your intellectual property rights have been infringed, please send notice to the address below. We may delete or disable content alleged to be infringing and may terminate accounts of repeat infringers."
https://skinsecret.co.in/privacy-policy,Privacy Policy,Privacy Policy | Skin Secrets Kochi
https://skinsecret.co.in/hair-treatment/hair-dye-allergy,Hair Dye Allergy,"In the quest for looking young, the prevalence of hair dye reactions has increased in recent years as dyeing hair has become popular among people of all ages. Allergy is more common in people who colour hair regularly, such as hairdressers, photographers, and those who use black temporary tattoos.
Causes of
The major signs of Hair Dye Allergy are
The molecules in hair dye are para-phenylenediamine (PPD), para-toluenediamine (PTDS), para-aminophenol, and hydrogen peroxide. Most reactions to hair dye and henna (kaalimehendi) are due to PPD. Ammonia, which is often blamed as the culprit, only facilitates dye penetration into the inner layers of the hair shaft (cortex). In ammonia-free hair dye, this is performed by sodium carbonate and ethanolamine. Hence, ammonia-free dyes do not prevent allergies.
Symptoms of
The symptoms may begin within a few hours to 1-2 days after the application of the dye, with itching, redness, swelling, and blisters over the scalp,hairline, face, neck, chest, arms, beard, and moustache.
How to use hair dye
Things to do before using hair dye are:
People who use hair dye should not keep the dye in their hair for longer than the recommended time. It should be washed out thoroughly.
While applying dye, wear a neoprene hand glove or a hair colouring cap with holes, and apply petroleum jelly or dimethicone cream to the skin adjacent to the hairline to avoid dye spillage on the skin.
Always perform a patch test by applying dye with a cotton swab behind the ear or forearm and allowing it to dry. The dye can be safely used if there is no reaction within 48 to 72 hours. A negative result on the patch test does not guarantee freedom from reaction, as the patch test itself could cause sensitisation and result in rash the next time the hair is dyed.
Studies about hair dye
Studies have shown an increased risk of bladder cancer, asthma, etc. among hairdressers. Recommendations for female hairdressers include working less than 35 hours per week.
Dye containing PIDS may be an alternative for those allergic to PPD. Safest is the use of pure home-ground henna. Immediately consult a dermatologist if you develop any discomfort after applying hair dye.
Dr. Anjana Mohan, Derm Laser Surgery and Consultant Dermatologist, Skinsecrets clinic, Cochin, Kerala. Ph:
+917025066555
Our Treatment
Result
Before
After"
https://skinsecret.co.in/hair-treatment/hair-growth-factors,Hair Growth Factors,"Hair Growth Factors Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Hair mesotherapy:
Painless injections of vitamins,minerals, medications, and amino acids into the scalp to stimulate hair growth.
PRP for hair regrowth:
In this technique, the patient's own blood is collected and platelet-rich plasma is extracted. The extracted PRP is then reinjected into the affected areas of the scalp after applying topical anaesthesia. This is a very safe procedure since the platelets are obtained from your body and then injected back into you. 4-6 treatment sessions at monthly intervals may be required for optimum results. Platelets contain growth factors that activate hair and stem cells, thereby stopping hair fall and promoting hair growth.
Low-level light therapy for hair growth(LLLT ):
LLLT for hair growth is an FDA-approved, non-invasive light delivered at a specific wavelength to stimulate hair follicles and increase blood flow throughout the scalp. This safe, effective, and painless treatment can scientifically induce the regrowth of thicker, fuller hair.
Introducing Kerala's First Regenerative Cell Therapy for Androgenetic Alopecia
Androgenetic alopecia occurs due to the sensitivity of hair follicles to androgens. This is the most common cause of hair loss and occurs in 70% of men and 40% of women during a certain period of their lives. In men, there is usually a recession of the hairline at the temples (receding hairline) and baldness on the crown. In women, it usually manifests in the form of a widening of the hairline. Regenera Activa is a new approach that relies on capillary regeneration techniques to combat hair loss. In this treatment,we use your own progenitor cells that are high in regenerative capacity to activate inactive hair follicles. These cells, extracted from the back of the head, are mixed with a vitamin suspension and then injected into the scalp. It converts most of the vellus hairs to terminal hairs and triggers new hair growth from the empty.
Expected Results?
Visible results can be seen starting in the first few months. And the best results will be seen within 6 months after treatment. Results will last for 12-18 months.
Regenera Active treatment involves a single treatment session, and it gives very good results. Studies have shown that 6-8 weeks after the treatment, the hair loss is stopped and the existing hair follicles, under the influence of the regenerative action of progenitor cells, begin to generate new hair.
result
One place that I would highly recommend. I got pimples on my face due to a folic acid deficiency. I consulted Dr. Anjana a few months ago, and she was so warm to listen to our skin-related problems and address our concerns. In a span of a few months, I was completely healed. My face is free of marks and pimples now. No words would suffice to thank you for the treatment. Very trustworthy treatment. Thank you so much. Definitely a highly recommended place for skin treatment.
Actually, I was struggling really hard to get rid of acne for a long time, and I tried a lot of medicines. Finally, I learned about Skinsecrets. I have been consulting for the past 2 months, and now I am really satisfied with the results. I'm very thankful to Skinsecrets."
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/acne-pimples,Acne Pimples,"Acne and Pimples Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Acne(pimples)
What is
Acne?
Acne is the most common skin disease in adolescence and for many, it can continue into adulthood (20% men and 35% women). It typically affects the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands and hair follicles (face, upper arms, shoulders, upper chest and the back).
Though pimples are not dangerous, they can leave some ugly scars and pigmentation behind. Successful acne treatment varies from individual to individual. At Skinsecrets, we offer an array of treatments that include both topical and oral medications, along with peels, lasers, injections and LED light therapy.
Besides eliminating the root cause of acne, the goal of the treatment is to minimise the damage caused by pimples, such as open pores, scars, and pigmentation.
Causes for
Acne
Acne typically affects the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands and hair follicles (the face, upper arms, shoulders, upper chest, and back).
Increased oil secretion by sebaceous glands
Increased bacterial load on skin
Clogging of oil glands by dirt or pollution
Hereditary
Hormonal influence
Our treatment
Triggers that worsen
Acne include
Acne typically affects the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands and hair follicles (the face, upper arms, shoulders, upper chest, and back).
Triggers for Acne include
Oil-based make-up
Menstruation
Squeezing of lesions
Excessive scrubbing of the face
Fatty or fried food intake
Milk and milk products
Stress
Hormonal pills
Protein supplements
Certain medications (steroids, psychiatric medications)
After shaving/waxing/threading
Dandruff
Recommended treatment for Acne
At Skinsecrets, we undertake the following treatments for acne, depending on the severity of the conditions. With persistence and patient expectations, the treatment plan is drafted.
Treatment for Acne
Face Wash
Topical Medications: Topical Antibiotics, Topical Reinoids-Vit A Derivative,Benzoyl Peroxide, Resorcinol, Azelaic Acid, Nicotinamide, Niacinamide, etc.
Oral Medications (Antibiotics, Retinoids, Oral Contraceptives, Multivitamins)
Lasers
Vaccum Therapy
Iontophoresis
LED Therapy
Customised Medifacials
Acne Injections: When a blemish strikes before an important event, this treatment is a lifesaver. A very dilute form of drug is injected directly into the pimple, which quickly flattens out and heals the acne lesion. It's perfect when you need to look good now.
Reach out to us at Skinsecrets for acne-free skin @
75609 07255
70250 66555"
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/corn,Corn,"Corn Removal at Skin Secrets Kochi
What are
Corns?
These are hardened layers of dead skin that occur due to repeated friction and pressure on the skin. They are usually found on the pressure-bearing areas of the palms and soles. The centre portion of the corn is hard, which is similar to a barley seed. In other words, it looks like a funnel with a wide, raised top and a pointed bottom.
Signs and Symptoms
Rough and thick yellow areas of lumpy skin
Pain when pressing the lesion
Pain while walking
The major causes of corn include the following:
Wearing ill-fitting footwear
Prolong standing or walking
Improper galt treatment for Corns
Corn can be easily treated once the right diagnosis is made.
Filing of Corn
The treatment procedure includes the following:
Soaking the feet in Epsom salts.
Pat dry the feet with a clean towel and moisturise adequately.
This process is continued until the corn has softened.
Once the corn is softened and not painful, rub the corn gently with a pumice stone.
But if the corn is between the toes, it's best to use an emery board or a nail file to rub them.
These steps have to be repeated until the corn is removed completely, which usually takes a few weeks.
The only problem with self-treatment is that you might mistake another kind of skin growth for a corn. Consult a professional or dermatologist for further softening of the corn and hassle-free removal.
Surgery
The procedure is performed after injecting an anaesthetic solution into the lesion for painless and effective removal.
Prevention of Corns
Some of the recommended ways to prevent corn include
Wearing comfortable footwear.
Opt for socks that are thick at toe region.
Cover the tops and the sides of the toes with breathable bandages if you are prone to corn.
Always keep the toenails trimmed, as long toenails can cause the toes to take up abnormal positions.
Speak to Dr.Anjana Mohan at Skinsecrets for flawless, acne-free skin @"
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/skin-tags,Skin Tags,"Skin Tag Removal at Skin Secrets Kochi
Skin Tags?
These are non-cancerous growths (made up of blood vessels and collagen) found on the skin. A small, thin stalk called a peduncle connects it to the skin. Skin tags are normally smaller than 2mm in size, but some might grow to several centimetres. They are soft and painless to touch.
They can either be
Smooth and round
Threadlike resembling rice grains
Wrinkly and asymmetrical
Their colour can vary from being flesh-coloured to becoming darker than the surrounding skin. Twisting a skin tag can make it darker due to the obstruction of blood flow.They occur in both genders and can appear anywhere on the body.
They are usually found in
Armpits
Groin
Neck
Thighs
Eyelids
Area under the breast
The exact cause of the occurrence of skin tags is still vague. Some of the causes that are attributed to their occurrence are:
Friction.
Resistance to insulin leading to Type 2 diabetes and prediabetes.
Occurrence is more common in Pregnancy.
Hormonal imbalance has been found to be the cause in rare cases.
Though it is genetic, not everyone at the same family is affected.
Treatment for
Skin tags are neither contagious nor dangerous, but they are cosmetically disfiguring.
Do not try to remove the skin tags on your own, as removing skin tags might cause bleeding, burns, and infection. Do not attempt to remove it by tying thread or hair around the tags, as these may cause excessive pain and infection. Refrain from applying acids, irritants, or home remedies to it, as these may contribute to the darkening of the area. The best advice is to let it be handled by your dermatologist.
Some of the treatment options for for removing skin tags are:
Cauterization
Ligation
Electrosurgery
Laser treatment
Depending on the type of lesion, the removal method is chosen and performed after application of topical anaesthesia
Testimonails"
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/skin-allergies,Skin Allergies,"Skin Allergy Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Skin Allergies?
When a skin injury occurs, fibrous scar tissue is torn over the wound. This helps in wound repair by providing protection for the injury. In some cases, the scar tissue grows excessively and results in the formation of a smooth and hard growth. These growths are called keloids, which can be larger than the original wound. Keloids are commonly found on the chest, shoulders, earlobes, and cheeks, but they can affect any part of the body. Though not harmful to the patient's health, it creates cosmetic and aesthetic concerns.
Types of
There are different types of Skin Allergies. Some of them are mentioned below:
Eczema in children
Pregnancy-related skin diseases
Skin diseases in old age (geriatric group)
Eczema In children
Eczema is the most common non-contagious inflammatory disorder that affects children. Most kids get itchy rashes at one time or another. But eczema can be a nuisance that may prompt scratching, which makes the problem worse. The most common cause of eczema is atopic dermatitis (sometimes called infantile eczema), which affects older kids as well as infants.
Various forms of eczema in children are
Seborrheic dermatitis (cradle cap in infants)
Atopic dermatitis
Contact dermatitis
Nummular eczema
Pityriasis alba
Eczema in children
The symptoms of eczema in children depend on the type of eczema. It can vary from a single dry, white patch over the face to severe, itchy, scaly rashes all over the body. Kids with eczema usually develop itchy, dry, red, scaly, oozy skin and small bumps on their cheeks, forehead, or scalp. The rash may spread to the arms, elbows, behind the knees, legs, trunk, or on the back of the ankles and wrists.
As kids get older, the rash becomes more scaly than it was when the eczema first began, and the skin becomes extremely itchy and dry. These symptoms also tend to worsen and improve over time, with flare-ups occurring periodically.
Kids who get eczema often have family members with hay fever, asthma, or other allergies.
Treatment of eczema in children includes avoidance of triggering factors (stuffed animal toys, woollen blankets, dry skin, irritants, heat and sweating, infection, pet dander, pollen, or dust), topical ointments, moisturisers, antihistamines, oral medications, and a few home remedies.
Your child's eczema may be worse in the winter when the air is dry. Saliva from drooling can also cause irritation on your baby's cheeks, chin, and neck.
Eczema looks and acts differently in infants and toddlers than it does in older children. The location and appearance of eczema change as children grow, so it is important to know what to look for at every stage of your infant's or toddler's life. Eczema in children can mimic other skin diseases like psoriasis, fungus infections, or even a simple sunlight allergy. So it is important to consult a qualified dermatologist to get the correct treatment.
Pregnancy-related skin diseases
Pregnancy is associated with various skin changes. Pregnancy-related skin diseases can be due to normal changes in the hormones, flare-ups of preexisting skin diseases, and pregnancy-specific skin diseases.
Skin changes due to normal pregnancy changes are
Stretch marks
Acne breakouts
Hair and nail changes
Melasma
Generalised hyperpigmentation
Pregnancy is associated with increased chance of infections, mainly vulvovaginal candidiasis.
Skin problems that are exclusively seen during pregnancy are
Pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy
Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy
Impetigo herpetiformis
Prurigo of pregnancy
Pemphigoid gestationis
Pruritic foliculitis of pregnancy
These can present as itchy papules, wounds, pustules, vesicles, or scaly rashes.
Treatments for pregnancy-related skin diseases
Treatment of skin diseases in pregnancy (oral and topical medications) should be done with the utmost care and should be safe for both the pregnant woman and the growing foetus.
Skin diseases in old age(geriatric group)
Advanced medical science has contributed to an increase in the average life span. Hence, diseases of the elderly are becoming increasingly important. At Skinsecrets, importance is given to improving the quality of life by enhancing appearance and treating skin ailments in the elderly
For correct diagnosis and treatment,
contact Skinsecrets @
7560907255
7025066555"
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/vitiligo,Vitiligo,"Vitiligo Treatment at Skin Secrets in Kochi
Vitiligo?
This is an autoimmune condition where the skin loses its colour as a whole or in patches. It can affect any part of the body, including skin, hair, and mucosal tissue.
Hair and skin colour are determined by the melanin-producing cells of the body. When these cells die or stop functioning, it leads to vitiligo. It can affect people of all skin types but is most prominent in darker skin types. It can start occurring at any age.
Patients with Vitiligo are found to be suffering from :
Social and psychological stress
Sunburn and skin cancer
Inflammation of the iris and other eye problems
Hearing loss
Vitiligo signs and symptoms
The major sign of Vitiligo are
Patchy loss of skin colour-hands, feet, arms, face, and lips.
Premature greying or whitening of hair on the scalp, eyelashes, eyebrows, or beard.
Loss of skin colour inside the mouth, nose, retina, etc.
Generalised Vitiligo:
This is a common type of vitiligo where multiple areas of the body are affected. The discoloured patches typically progress symmetrically on corresponding body parts.
Segmental Vitiligo:
This type appears only on the side or, in some cases, on a part of the body. It may start at a young age, progress for a year or two, and then stop.
Localised or focal Vitiligo:
This type usually occurs in one or a few areas of the body.
The major sign of Vitiligo are:
The body's immune system itself attacks and destroys healthy cells and tissues, and this condition is called auto-immune.
Triggers like sunburn, stress, or even exposure to some chemicals.
Thyroid Disorder
Treatment management of
Treatment options are decided based on the type of vitiligo, the extent of involvement, and other conditions related to the patient's skin.
The treatment options include:
Oral medications
Topical medications
Tattooing or micropigmentation: In this procedure, a hypoallergenic medical pigment that matches the surrounding skin colour is introduced into the skin at a level of 2mm deep to camouflage the flaws.
Therapy (energy-based):
Combination of Light Therapy and Psoralen
: This therapy of combining psoralen and light therapy can help regain skin colour. The patient is exposed to UV light after oral or topical application of psoralen. The treatments might have to be repeated 3 times a week for 6-12 months.
Depigmentation
: This therapy is used for widespread vitiligo. A depigmenting agent is applied to the unaffected skin to lighten it so that it blends with the discoloured area."
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/psoriasis,Psoriasis,"Psoriasis Treatment Options at Skin Secrets Kochi
Psoriasis?
Psoriasis is a non-infectious and non-transmissible autoimmune skin condition that can be both baffling and persistent. Thick, silvery-white, scaly plaques appear on the skin due to the rapid and excessive proliferation of cells. Common areas of the body that are affected are the knees, elbows, scalp, legs, trunk, and nails. It can also be found on any part of the skin. The lesions are typically raised, silvery-white, red, and itchy. There are different types of psoriasis, but one of the most common is plaque psoriasis.
Psoriasis is a non-infectious and non-transmissible autoimmune skin condition that can be both baffling and persistent.
The predominant cause is attributed to an altered immune system.
Genetic transmission
Environmental factors.
Smoking
Certain medications.
Streptococcal infection.
Signs and symptoms of
Acne typically affects the areas where there is the densest population of sebaceous glands and hair follicles (the face,upper arms, shoulders, upper chest, and back).
What are the symptoms of Psoriasis?
Pink or red scaly flakes.
Appearance of psoriasis at sites of scratching or abrasion is common.
A tiny spot of blood is seen when you attempt to remove the flakes.
Fingernails and toenails may have pinpoint depressions or small pits.
Onycholysis or separation of the nail from its bed is noticed at the fingertip.
treatment for Psoriasis
At Skinsecrets, we first conduct a thorough examination after taking a detailed medical and personal history. Treatment options may vary based on the degree of involvement. It may vary from body washes, topical medications, shampoo, oral medications, injections, and light therapies. If required, blood tests and a skin biopsy may be carried out prior to commencing the treatment.
Conclusion
Not all cases presented with the aforementioned symptoms are psoriasis, so one must visit a dermatologist to confirm the diagnosis.
To differentiate psoriasis from lichen planus and receive effective treatment,
+91 7025066555"
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/pigmentation,Pigmentation,"Pigmentation Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Pigmentation?
Skin pigmentation, be it increased pigmentation or decreased pigmentation (white patches), is a major cosmetic concern among those suffering from it. It could also be a manifestation of an underlying systemic disorder.
Causes of Pigmentation
Age Spots
Solar lentigines
Birth Marks
Pigmentation due to makeup and overuse of certain skin-whitening creams
Hyperpigmentation (pressure points)
Pigmentation due to nutritional deficiencies
Pigmentation seen during pregnancy and after delivery
Freckles
Sunspots
Tanning
Pigmentation of lips, around eyes and sides of nose, around lips
Connective tissue diseases
Treatments for
Skin pigmentation, be it increased pigmentation or decreased pigmentation (white patches), is a major cosmetic concern among those suffering from it. It could also be a manifestation of an underlying systemic disorder.
Topical medications (creams, lotions, and sunscreens)
Microdermabrasion
Laser treatment: Revlite-Q Switched Nd YAG
IV Nutritional Therapy for Skin Whitening
Oral Medications
Mesotherapy.
Chemical peeling.
PRP treatments.
For a detailed assessment and the best suitable treatments for your skin,"
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/keloid,Keloid,"Keloid Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Keloid?
When a skin injury occurs, fibrous scar tissue is formed over the wound. This helps in wound repair by providing protection for the injury. In some cases, the scar tissue grows excessively and results in the formation of a smooth and hard growth. These growths are called keloids, which can be larger than the original wound. Keloids are commonly found on the chest, shoulders, earlobes, and cheeks, but they can affect any part of the body. Though not harmful to the patient's health, it creates cosmetic and aesthetic concerns.
The symptoms occur at the site of the injury, and some of them include:
The injured area turns either flesh-coloured, pink, or red.
The affected skin turns lumpy.
Thickened skin at the site of injury.
This area continues to grow larger with scar tissue.
Itchy
Might experience discomfort, tenderness, or irritation from clothes or other substances through friction.
In rare cases, restriction of movement in the affected area.
Keloid scarring can occur from different types of skin injuries, like:
Burns
Pimples
Chickenpox scars
Ear piercing
Scratches
Surgical incision sites
Vaccination sites
Keloids are caused as a result of the body's attempt to treat itself. So there are chances of them reappearing and growing to a larger size than before.
Corticosteroid injections to reduce inflammation.
Pressure application or silicone gel pads once the wound is healed.
Laser treatments will help reduce the scar tissue.
Application of moisturisers on the keloid to make it softer.
Cryotherapy, or cryosurgery, is where extreme cold is applied to kill the skin cells.
To distinguish between keloids and hypertrophic scars and find effective treatments,
7025065555"
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/skin-infections,Skin Infections,"Skin Infection Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Fungal Infections (Mycosis)?
Fungal infections can affect skin, hair, nails, and mucosal tissue. The intensity of symptoms depends on the area affected and the duration of the disease. It may present as red or black rashes over the skin, white lesions on the tongue, abnormal vaginal discharge, deformed or discoloured nails, scaling, swelling, or loss of hair on the scalp or beard area.
Fungal Infections
There are different types of fungal infections. Some of them are mentioned below:
Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis)
Ringworm (Tinea Corporis)
Tinea Capitis (Scalp)
Onychomycosis (Nail)
Tinea Versicolor
Cutaneous Candidiasis
Tinea Barbae (Beard)
Fungal Infections
The treatment of fungal infections depends on the type of fungus involved. If it is a superficial fungal infection, it might take either a few days or a few months for it to heal. Deep-tissue fungal infections usually take nearly two years to get treated.
Fungal infections are more common in those with a weakened immune system, elevated blood sugar levels, and overuse of antibiotics, steroids, and antiseptics.
The fungi that cause these infections are difficult to eliminate. Prior use of topicals containing steroids will make the treatment even more difficult. Hence, it is always better to consult your dermatologist for effective treatment options.
Though not life-threatening, they can be a source of embarrassment, anxiety, and distress for patients presenting with them. Abuse of creams containing steroids will make the treatment difficult.
Prevention of
Fungal Infections
Some of the recommended ways to prevent fungal infections are:
Bath twice daily.
Keep skin clean and dry.
Air out sneakers.
Avoid wearing wet/damp/tight fitting clothes.
When there are multiple family members affected, every member has to get treated for effective elimination of the organism.
Washed clothes should be dried in the sunlight.
Ironing of clothes, including innerwear, before wearing them.
Avoid using antiseptic soaps or solutions while bathing.
Stick to wearing loose cotton garments.
Avoid sharing beds, linens, and clothing with infected people.
Bacterial
Infections
A bacterial infection is the proliferation of a harmful strain of bacteria either on or inside the body. Any part of the body can be affected by a bacterial infection.
Types Of Bacteria Infections
The different types of bacteria that can cause infections are
Staphylococcus
Pseudomonas
Escherichia coli (E. coli)
Streptococcus
Clostridium difficile
Listeria monocytogenes
The most common bacterial skin infections include:
Cellulitis
Absces
Furuncle
Erysipelas
Necrotising Fasciitis
Leprosy (rare)
Boils
Folliculitis causes red, swollen bumps similar to pimples, and it affects the hair follicles. Swimming pools or hot tubs that are not properly treated and cleaned harbour the bacteria that cause folliculitis.
Impetigo is commonly seen in children of preschool age. The bullous form of Impetigo causes large blisters, while the non-bullous form appears with a yellow crust.
Bacterial Infections
Topical, oral, or intravenous antibiotics are used to treat bacterial skin infections. However, this depends on the strain that caused the infection. They disrupt the processes necessary for the growth of a bacterial cell and its proliferation. Antibiotics have to be taken exactly as prescribed, failing which, the bacterial infection could get worse.
Note: Avoid using steroid-based preparations and topical antiseptic solutions on the skin to prevent worsening of the condition.
Viral
Infections
Despite all the advances in antiviral therapy and the body's efficient immune system, the viruses that cause common skin infections continue to evade complete destruction.
Commonly encountered contagious viral infections are:
Wart
Molluscum Contagiosum
Varicella Zoster (Chicken pox)
Genital Wart
Herpes Zoster or Shingles (non-contagious)
Since many presenting symptoms overlap, early diagnosis increases the chances for successful treatment, thereby arresting the spread."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology/cryotherapy,Cryotherapy,"Cryotherapy Treatment at Skin Secrets Cochin
Cryotherapy?
Cryotherapy is a very safe and simple procedure commonly performed in our OPD for the effective removal of benign and malignant skin lesions. In this procedure, there is controlled destruction of target tissues by freezing them using liquid nitrogen, i.e., the lesions are treated at the cellular level."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology/vampire-face-lift,Vampire Face Lift,"Vampire Facelift Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Vampire Face Lift?
This is a medical procedure performed for patients who need healthy, youthful, and rejuvenated skin. Patients can carry on with their daily routine after the procedure is done, as it is performed quickly as an outpatient procedure. The patient can see the effect of this procedure the same day, and it usually lasts for months, maybe a year, after the procedure.
It is called a 'Vampire' facelift because in this procedure, growth factors extracted from your own blood are used to rejuvenate your skin."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology/double-chin-reduction,Double Chin Reduction,"Double Chin Reduction Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Double Chin Reduction?
A double chin is an excessive amount of submental fat that will result in abnormal chubbiness around the jaws. Excess submental fat may make the patient appear overweight or older."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology/thread-lift,Thread Lift,"Thread Lift Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Thread Lift?
Thread Lift is a medical procedure that is designed to improve the saggy, dull, and tired look on the face in an innovative manner, giving a natural, relaxed look while enhancing the contours of the face. This procedure utilises resorbable threads like polydioxanone or caprolactone, whose unique design helps the surrounding tissues hold them in place without creating visible scars."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology/eye-bag-reduction,Eye Bag Reduction,"Eye Bag Reduction Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
What is an eye bag?
Eye bags or under-eye puffiness are common as we grow older, along with dark circles under the eyes. Eye bags don't get better with sleep or a balanced diet. They make a person look tired and old, even if they are not.
Cause of eye bag
Ageing
: loss of support structure and the sliding down of the small fat pads around the eyes
Poor lifestyle choices and smoking
: Alcohol and tobacco result in increased levels of toxins in the body, which contribute to fluid retention and collagen and elastin damage, leading to puffy eyes.
Genetics
Other factors
: seasonal allergies, eczema, and sleeping face down."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology/botox-fillers,Botox Fillers,"Botox & Fillers Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Botox and Fillers?
Botox and Fillers are the most common and widely used minimally invasive cosmetic treatments in the cosmetic industry. Botox,a natural purified protein, works as a relaxant on muscles, which cause wrinkles during contraction. Dermal fillers contain hyaluronic acid, which is naturally present in the body, and add volume to areas that have thinned due to ageing."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology/skin-polishing,Skin Polishing,"Skin Polishing Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Skin Polishing?
This physical exfoliating treatment,popularly called skin polishing, is done with the controlled ejection of minimally abrasive, skin-friendly aluminium microcrystals hitting your skin to exfoliate the top layer, which is then sucked back through a vacuum method."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology/peels,Peels,"Skin Peels Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi peels?
Peels, also known as chemical peels, help remove dead cells and debris from the top layer of your skin, making the skin pimple-free, a few shades lighter, and rejuvenated. It also helps with pore reduction and fine lines."
https://skinsecret.co.in/cosmetic-dermatology/medifacials,Medifacials,"Medifacials Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Medifacials?
Skinsecrets offer a wide array of medifacials designed to extend the treatment benefits. Our medifacials has a whispered ""best-kept secret"" quality about it. Whether you are concerned about dull skin, acne, acne scars (chicken pox scars), melasma, excessive dryness, hyperpigmentation, rosacea, fine lines, sagging, excessive oil, or sensitive skin, the dermatologists at Skinsecrets can create a facial treatment exclusively for you. All our facials and body treatments begin with a thorough skin analysis and consultation with our dermatologist. Protocols are designed after evaluating your lifestyle, skin type, and overall health."
https://skinsecret.co.in/laser-dermatology/laser-hair-reduction,Laser Hair Reduction,"Laser Hair Removal Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Laser Hair Reduction?
unwanted hair
The causes of unwanted hair growth could be due to;
Hormonal imbalance in the body
Irregular menstrual cycle
Usage of certain medications
Due to pregnancy and heredity"
https://skinsecret.co.in/laser-dermatology/unwanted-hair-removal,Unwanted Hair Removal,"Unwanted Hair Removal Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
How is
Unwanted Hair Removal done?
unwanted hair growth?
The causes unwanted hair growth could be due to;
Pregnancy and heredity"
https://skinsecret.co.in/laser-dermatology/tattoo-removal,Tattoo Removal,"Tattoo Removal at Skin Secrets Kochi
Laser Tattoo Removal?
Laser Tattoo Removal is a medical procedure that uses light energy in the form of lasers to help remove any tattoo that the patient no longer wants. It can ensure the effective removal of a wide range of colours and inks in a safe manner.
It is the most effective method in tattoo removal when compared to other techniques like:
Surgical excision
Bleaching and sanding
Infrared coagulation
Acid-detattooing
This procedure can also be used to remove
Cosmetic tattooing that includes eyebrows, eyeliners, and lip liners
Traumatic tattooing that follows injuries, like gravel and tar staining
Procedure
The procedure is performed after the application of numbing cream to avoid discomfort. Some patients describe the pain as minimal, like snapping a rubber band..
Multiple treatment sessions are needed, depending on the characteristics of the tattoo pigment and the goals of the patient.
Post-Procedure
Post-procedure instructions given by the doctor must be strictly followed.
Most important is the regular application of sunscreen.
Contact Skinsecrets @ for tattoo removal with the gold standard Q Revlite Q-Switched ND YAG."
https://skinsecret.co.in/medical-dermatology/scars,Scars,"Scar Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Scars?
Though not dangerous, they can leave some ugly scars and pigmentation behind. Successful acne treatment varies from individual to individual. At Skinsecrets, we offer an array of treatments, which include both topical and oral medications, peels,lasers, injections, and LED light therapy.
Horizontal forehead lines
Bunny lines
Frown lines"
https://skinsecret.co.in/laser-dermatology/full-body-laser-treatments,Full Body Laser Treatments,"Full Body Laser Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Laser Treatment?
Full-body hair removal is specifically gaining popularity with both men and women. When you opt for a full-body laser package, your dermatologist will make a thorough analysis by dividing the body areas to be treated into sections and then narrow down the number of sessions required for the treatment to get rid of unwanted hair."
https://skinsecret.co.in/laser-dermatology/skin-tightening,Skin Tightening,"Skin Tightening Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Skin Tightening?
Ageing affects us all. We are often judged on the basis of our appearance. Healthy and radiant skin is integral to our confidence and self-esteem. So it is important to give your skin the right amount of care at the right time. Skin tightening is one of the cosmetic solutions that is performed to treat sagging skin and can either be invasive (surgical) or non-invasive.
Skin Tightening?
The loss of collagen under the skin is the main reason behind sagging skin.
Sun exposure
Life style
Extremely cold and wet weather
Bad nutrition"
https://skinsecret.co.in/laser-dermatology/stretch-marks,Stretch Marks,"Stretch Mark Removal Treatment at Skin Secrets Kochi
Stretch marks?
These are the scars that appear as linear, thin lines on the shoulders, breasts, underarms, abdomen, hips, thighs, and back of lower limbs of calf muscles. These are usually found in pregnant women or people who have gained weight considerably quickly. Except for aesthetic disfigurement, stretch marks are not a physical threat, and most of it usually don't fade over time.
Weight fluctuations
Pregnancy
Weightlifting
Hormonal imbalance
Topical and oral steroid overuse
Accelerated growth throughout adolescence"
https://skinsecret.co.in/termsandcondition,Termsandcondition,"Page not found
GO HOME r replacement if necessary.
Tips for new braces wearers are discussed in this blog. Braces will help you correct your smile and align your teeth. The first few weeks may be difficult but gradually you will get used to it. Taking care of your oral hygiene is essential after having braces. Consuming soft foods and avoiding hard, sticky and crunchy foods is required to prevent them from being damaged. Using a retainer after braces keeps your teeth in their new place rather than going back to their original position."
